---
layout: default
title: url tag
parent:
  title: Tag Reference
  url: tag-reference.html
---

# url

Please make sure you have read the [Tag Syntax](tag-syntax) document and understand how tag attribute syntax works.

> **NOTE**: The `id` attribute is deprecated in Struts 2.1.x, and has been replaced by the `var` attribute.

## Description

This tag is used to create a URL.

You can use the &lt;param&gt; tag inside the body to provide additional request parameters. If the value of a param 
is an Array or an Iterable all the values will be added to the URL.

> **NOTE**: By default request parameters will be separated using escaped ampersands (i.e., &amp;). This is necessary
> for XHTML compliance, however, when using the URL generated by this tag with the `<s:property>` tag, the **escapeAmp**
> attribute should be used to disable ampersand escaping.

> **NOTE**: When includeParams is `all` or `get`, the parameter defined in a `<param>` tag will take precedence over 
> any params included due to the includeParams attribute. For example, in Example 3 below, if there is a id parameter 
> in the url where the page this tag is included like `http://<host>:<port>/<context>/editUser.action?id=3333&name=John`
> the generated url will be `http://<host>:<port>/<context>/editUser.action?id=22&name=John`
> because the parameter defined in the `param` tag will take precedence

### Setting a default value for `includeParams`

The property `struts.url.includeParams` can be used to set the default value of the `includeParams` attribute.

**Setting the default value of includeParams**

```xml
<struts>
   ...
   <constant name="struts.url.includeParams" value="none" />
   ...
</struts>

```

See [Constant Configuration](../core-developers/constant-configuration) for further information.

> **NOTE**: As of Struts 2.1.3 the includeParams constant defaults to `none`. 

{% remote_file_content https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/struts/main/core/src/site/resources/tags/url-description.html %}

## Attributes

{% remote_file_content https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/struts/main/core/src/site/resources/tags/url-attributes.html %}

> **NOTE**: When the `var` attribute is used with the `url` tag, the tag's generated URL value will be placed into the request scope
> **in addition to** the action scope.

## Examples

```jsp
<!-- Example 1 -->
<s:url value="editGadget.action">
    <s:param name="id" value="%{selected}" />
</s:url>

<!-- Example 2 -->
<s:url action="editGadget">
    <s:param name="id" value="%{selected}" />
</s:url>

<!-- Example 3-->
<s:url includeParams="get">
    <s:param name="id" value="%{'22'}" />
</s:url>
```
